#BiologAnalysis folder
This folder relates to analysis of Biolog experiments performed in Baroukh et al. 2023 (Please cite Baroukh et al. 2023 (https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.01.09.523232)

Scripts were runned using python and the following versions of the librairies:
- python 3.6
- pandas 1.1.5
- matplotlib 3.0.2
- openpyxl 2.5.9
- numpy 1.19.5
- seaborn 0.11.2


#folder input:
Contains Biolog data and metadata.
- PMs_Map.xlsx: a list of all substrates for all PMs Biolog plates.
- rsol_metadata: metadata for strains presents in rsol.xlsx and rsol_metadata.xlsx
- rsol.xlsx: all Biolog data normalized by the negative control A1 well (normalisation performed by Biolog software).
             first datasheet contains all WT data
             second datasheet contains all phcA data
             third datasheet contains phcA data and the WT counterpart
- rsol_time.xlsx: all Biolog data normalized by the negative control A1 well as well as by time (67h ou 96h).
                  first datasheet contains all WT data
                  second datasheet contains all phcA data
                  third datasheet contains phcA data and the WT counterpart

#folder output:
Contains all outputs of python scripts
- A: maximal intensity reached for each well of each Biolog PM plate
- AUC: area under the curve reached for each well of each Biolog PM plate
- Growth: excel sheets analyzing automatically if there is growth or not for each well of each Biolog PM plate
- HeatMap: clustering of data under the form of heatmaps
- Images: plots of Biolog PM plate time course data row by row
- PCA: PCA analysis of data

#plotDataByRow.py
Plots each Biolog PM well time course data.
To run the script, choose data file and datasheet in this file.
Images are present in the output folder output/Images/.
The output folder will have as name the name of the data file and the datasheet.

#Compute_A
Compute maximal intensity A for each well of each Biolog PM plate.
Maximal intensity A is the mean of the 10 largest values reach in each well.
To run the script, choose data file and datasheet in this file.
Results are given in an Excel sheet in the output folder output/A/
The output filename will have as name the name of the data file and the datasheet.

#Compute_AUC
Compute area under the curve using trapz method of numpy library for each well of each Biolog PM plate.
Maximal intensity A is the mean of the 10 largest values reach in each well.
To run the script, choose data file and datasheet in this file.
Results are given in an Excel sheet in the output folder output/A/
The output filename will have as name the name of the data file and the datasheet.

#Clustering
Cluster under the form of a heatmap using data from AUC or A folder.
The output filename is the same name as the input filename.

#GrowthorNoGrowth
Compute whether there is growth or not for each well of each Biolog PM plates.
The output filename is the same name as the input filename.

#PCA
Perform PCA analysis on data from AUC or A folder.
The output filename is the same name as the input filename.
